# Research Question and Importance
For my final project, I want to explore a research question relating to how different states have been affected by the most recent surge in COVID-19. More specifically, I want to look at which states experienced the highest number of hospitalizations from the Omicron variant, and if these high hospitalization rates correlate to low vaccination rates or other measures in a given state. This topic is important to me and to many others as our lives have been greatly affected by COVID-19. Many hoped that vaccines would end the pandemic, however we are seeing that this isn't the case and that vaccination rates have been lower than expected. By researching the most recent surge, we may be able to infer what is causing surges in certain states. Personally, I'm curious to see how states with higher vaccination rates compare to states with lower vaccination rates, and therefore how effective vaccines have been in preventing hospitalization or slowing the spread. This is a topic that is of interest to many people and this research will provide a greater understanding of the most recent variant and COVID-19 going forward.
# Data Sources
The data source I will use to explore this research question is a dataset on COVID-19 hospitalizations in different states released by the US Department of Health & Human Services (HHS). This dataset lists confirmed and suspected COVID-19 admissions per day (per 100k people). Both adult and pediatric cases are included. Here is a link to the dataset: https://delphi.cmu.edu/covidcast/export/
# Analysis and Visualizations
I chose this dataset as I intend to analyze how COVID-19 hospital admissions differed for different states in the week following Christmas. The time period I choose to analyze may change but I thought the week following Christmas would be interesting as COVID-19 spread significantly follwing Christmas due to people traveling and the new Omicron variant. I intend to analyze how different states were affected and any correlation to vaccination rates or other policies such as required masks in public indoor places. For visualizations, I plan on using scatterplots to show correlation, line graphs to show how hospitalizations increased or decreased during the given time period, and map visualizatons to visually show areas with highest hospitalization rates.  
# Conclusion
As stated above, I intend to gain insight into how the Omicron variant has affected different states in the U.S. in terms of number of hospitalizations. I hope to gain insight into what factors affected the effects of Omicron in different states such as vaccination rates, wearing masks, population density, and different policies put in place. Analyzing the most recent COVID-19 surge will help myself and others understand how to manage COVID-19 going forward and what to expect from future surges. Additionally, looking at the number of hospitalizations per 100k confirmed cases now versus before vaccines will provide insight into the effectiveness of vaccines in preventing hospitalization. 
